### PomBase data update with multi-allele phenotypes

We have updated the data available on the PomBase web site to include
manual curation through August 13, 2015, including 300 community-curated
publications.

PomBase gene pages now include multi-allele phenotype annotations (i.e.
phenotypes of double mutants, triple mutants, etc.). New sub-sections of
the gene pages display multi-allele phenotypes at the population and
individual cell level, paralleling the organisation of the single allele
phenotype display. Compact and full views are available; both show
phenotypes with the relevant genotypes and the alleles that make them
up, and the full view adds details for evidence, expression, conditions,
and references.

The genome browser now includes data tracks for two more publications:\
\
DNA polymerase usage from:\
Daigaku Y, Keszthelyi A, Müller CA, Miyabe I, Brooks T, Retkute R,
Hubank M, Nieduszynski CA, Carr AM. 2015. A global profile of
replicative polymerase usage. *Nat Struct Mol Biol.* 2015
Mar;**22(3):**192-8. doi:
[10.1038/nsmb.2962](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nsmb.2962)
PMID:[25664722](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=25664722)\
\
Promoters and transcription start sites from:\
Li H, Hou J, Bai L, Hu C, Tong P, Kang Y, Zhao X, Shao Z. 2015.
Genome-wide analysis of core promoter structures in Schizosaccharomyces
pombe with DeepCAGE. *RNA Biol.* 2015;**12(5):**525-37. doi:
[10.1080/15476286.2015](http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15476286.2015.1022704).1022704
PMID:[25747261](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=25747261)

Codon adaptation index (CAI) values are now included in the Protein
Properties section of the gene pages and in the downloadable
PeptideStats.tsv file. A file of amino acid composition data is also
available from the FTP site and the [Protein
Datasets](/downloads/protein-datasets) page.

The gene page section that was formerly misnamed "species distribution"
is now called "taxonomic conservation".
