### PomBase data update

We have updated the data available on the PomBase web site to include
manual curation through October 27, 2014, including 225
community-curated publications. The gene page Phenotype section now
includes data from the high-throughput microscopy analysis of viable
deletion mutants reported in:\
\
Graml V, Studera X, Lawson JL, Chessel A, Geymonat M, Bortfeld-Miller M,
Walter T, Wagstaff L, Piddini E, Carazo-Salas RE. A Genomic Multiprocess
Survey of Machineries that Control and Link Cell Shape, Microtubule
Organization, and Cell-Cycle Progression. Dev Cell. 2014 Oct
27;31(2):227-39. doi:
[10.1016/j.devcel.2014.09.005](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.devcel.2014.09.005)
[PMID:25373780](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=25373780).
Links to the accompanying SYSGRO resource have been added to the
External References section of the gene pages.

The genome browser now includes tracks for intron branch point data
from:

Bitton DA, Rallis C, Jeffares DC, Smith GC, Chen YY, Codlin S,
Marguerat  S, Bähler J. LaSSO, a strategy for genome-wide mapping of
intronic  lariats and branch points using RNA-seq. Genome Res. 2014
Jul;24(7):1169-79. doi:
[10.1101/gr.166819.113](http://dx.doi.org/10.1101/gr.166819.113)
[PMID:24709818](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=24709818).

We have greatly improved search results for GO and FYPO annotations:
both now follow more relationship types within the ontology to retrieve
genes annotated to a term. The PomBase GO search now includes the
*regulates* relationships, so its search results are consistent with
those in the GO Consortium's AmiGO browser. The FYPO search now uses
*has\_part,* *has\_output*, and *output\_of* as well as *is\_a* and
*part\_of*. The Phenotype section now includes a highlighted sub-header
that indicates whether a deletion mutant is viable or inviable. A file
of protein complex subunits is available for download, and numerous
smaller improvements have been made in the gene pages and static pages.
