## Ortholog curation

The "Orthologs" section of a gene page lists any orthologous genes in
budding yeast (*Saccharomyces cerevisiae*) or human (*Homo sapiens*)
that have been assessed and recorded manually by curators. Budding
yeast entries link to the [*Saccharomyces* Genome Database](http://www.yeastgenome.org/) (SGD), 
and human genes link to [HGNC](http://www.genenames.org/); the text
descriptions come from these databases.

Ortholog prediction: The source of the ortholog prediction may vary. In
some cases the consensus ortholog from the major ortholog predictors
([Compara](http://www.ensembl.org/info/docs/compara/index.html),
[Inparanoid](http://inparanoid.sbc.su.se/),
[OrthoMCL](http://www.orthomcl.org/)) is used. Many distant orthologs
have also been identified by [PSI-BLAST]{.st} matches that are uniformly
one-to one across species; these alignments have been submitted to the
[Pfam](http://pfam.xfam.org/) protein family database. Other
ortholog predictions come from experimental data demonstrating
functional correspondence or involving membership of corresponding
complexes. These predictions are also aligned and submitted to Pfam
before inclusion. PomBase's approach ensures that the breadth of
coverage is greater than any individual prediction method, and includes
many ortholog calls which are not detected by any automated method.
Gradually, we will add and display supporting references for all
orthology calls.

For species other than budding yeast and human, we provide links to
Compara to display orthologs from fungi or from all species. for further
information, see the [FAQ on orthologs in additional species](/faq/how-can-i-find-s.-pombe-orthologs-species-other-than-human-and-s.-cerevisiae).
